VMbox를 사용하여 centos7을 운영체제로 하는 가상머신을 생성했다.
호스트인 window에서 putty를 이용하여 ssh 접속을 시도하였으나 실패했다.
ssh 쉘에 나타나는 사유는 타임아웃이었다.

결과부터 이야기하자.

가상머신의 네트워크 설정을 잘못한 것이 문제였다. 가상머신의 네트워크 방식을 NAT으로 해 놓고 있었던 것이다.

이 방식은 호스트가 공유기처럼 작동하는 방식이다. 호스트 자신이 가진 사설망을 또 한 번 나누어 가상머신에 배분하는 방식이다.
애초에 호스트가 가지고 있던 ip도 사설망 ip인데, 이것을 10.xxx.xxx.xxx 방식의 ip로 나누어 가상머신에게 배분한다.

따라서 VMbox의 설정에 가서   




https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch06.html#network_nat_service

-NAT Network. A NAT network is a type of internal network that allows outbound connections

:The Network Address Translation (NAT) service works in a similar way to a home router, 
grouping the systems using it into a network and preventing systems outside of this network
 from directly accessing systems inside it, but letting systems inside communicate with 
 each other and with systems outside using TCP and UDP over IPv4 and IPv6.
  



 https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch06.html#network_bridged
 
- Bridged networking. This is for more advanced networking needs,
 such as network simulations and running servers in a guest. When enabled,
Oracle VM VirtualBox connects to one of your installed network cards and exchanges network packets directly,
circumventing your host operating system's network stack.

: With bridged networking, Oracle VM VirtualBox uses a device driver on your host system that 
filters data from your physical network adapter. This driver is therefore called a net filter driver.
 This enables Oracle VM VirtualBox to intercept data from the physical network and inject data into it,
 effectively creating a new network interface in software. When a guest is using such a new software interface,
 it looks to the host system as though the guest were physically connected to the interface using a network cable.
 The host can send data to the guest through that interface and receive data from it.
 This means that you can set up routing or bridging between the guest and the rest of your network.


 
 